---
layout: page
title: Syllabus
---

## WIS 6934 Ecological Dynamics and Forecasting

  |**Instructors**        |Dr. Morgan Ernest        | Dr. Ethan White
  |**Office Location**    |Building 150, Room 2     | Building 150, Room 1
  |**Phone**              |352-294-2082             | 352-294-2084
  |**Email (preferred)**  |<skmorgane@ufl.edu>      | <ethanwhite@ufl.edu>
  |**Office Hours**       |Tuesday 3-4              |
                                                 
<br>
												 
#### **Times and Locations**

Tuesday, Period 5 (11:45-12:35), MCCA 3194

Wednesday, Period 3 (9:35-10:25), MAT 0010

#### **Course Objectives**

The goal of this class is to provide students a basic understanding of
how populations and communities change through time and to provide fundamental 
concepts of how to forecast those changes. By the end of the semester, students will:

1)  Have an appreciation of the dynamics of species and communities.

2)  Understand the basic concepts of forecasting that apply across fields 
    and the challenges within ecology

3)  Have a basic understanding of working with time series data

#### **General Course Structure and Expectations**

This course is a mixture class discussion of primary literature and
hands-on experience involving some class activities. Completing assigned
readings, intellectual engagement with topics, and discussion
participation are the main ways students will learn in this class.
Tuesdays are typically concept discussion days. Thursdays will be a mix
of tools or concept discussion. You are expected to come prepared to
discuss the assigned papers.

#### **Course Grading**

60% of grade will be based on a class project and presentation (330
points), 40% will be based on class participation in discussion\* (220
points, 10 points/class day).

\*Undergraduates uncomfortable with the expectation of participating in
a graduate discussion should talk to me about a written alternative.

#### **Attendance Policy**

I know that graduate students have field work or conferences they need
to miss class for and sometimes illnesses happen. Of the 24 days of
lecture/discussion scheduled, I am counting 22. This provides 2 days
that can be missed without impacts on your grade. Additional missed
discussions can be made up by providing a written summary of the
readings for the day(s) missed. Written summaries will involve
1-paragraph summary of the main questions and findings for each assigned
paper and 1 paragraph synthesizing what these papers mean in conjunction
about biodiversity.

#### **Course Materials**

1)  There is not a required or recommended text book for this class

2)  All reading materials will be made available through the Canvas
    e-learning system. You must have an active GatorLink ID to
    access e-Learning. Should you encounter problems with your GatorLink
    account or need assistance, contact GatorLink website
    (http://gatorlink.ufl.edu ) or UF Computing Help Desk: The Hub,
    392-HELP for assistance. If you need assistance with the e-Learning
    system, please visit e-Learning Support Services home
    page (https://elearning2.courses.ufl.edu/portal/help/main) or
    contact e-Learning Support Team (UF Helpdesk HUB 132; Phone:(352)
    392-HELP (4357); Email:learning-support@ufl.edu).

3)  Laptops: On specific days (notes on the course schedule) laptops or
    tablets will be required to participate in literature search and
    basic computational activities.


### **UF Policies**

#### **University Policy on Accommodating Students with Disabilities**

Students requesting accommodation for disabilities must first register
with the Dean of Students Office (http://www.dso.ufl.edu/drc/). The Dean
of Students Office will provide documentation to the student who must
then provide this documentation to the instructor when requesting
accommodation. You must submit this documentation prior to submitting
assignments or taking the quizzes or exams. Accommodations are not
retroactive, therefore, students should contact the office as soon as
possible in the term for which they are seeking accommodations.

#### **University Policy on Academic Misconduct**

Academic honesty and integrity are fundamental values of the University
community. Students should be sure that they understand the UF Student
Honor Code at http://www.dso.ufl.edu/students.php.

#### **Netiquette and Communication Courtesy**

All members of the class are expected to follow rules of common courtesy
in all email messages, threaded discussions and chats.


#### **Getting Help**

For issues with technical difficulties for E-learning in Canvas, please
contact the UF Help Desk at:

-   Learning-support@ufl.edu

-   \(352) 392-HELP - select option 2

-   https://lss.at.ufl.edu/help.shtml

Any requests for make-ups due to technical issues MUST be accompanied by
the ticket number received from LSS when the problem was reported to
them. The ticket number will document the time and date of the problem.
You MUST e-mail your instructor within 24 hours of the technical
difficulty if you wish to request a make-up.

Other resources are available at
http://www.distance.ufl.edu/getting-help for:

-   Counseling and Wellness resources

-   Disability resources

-   Resources for handling student concerns and complaints

-   Library Help Desk support

Should you have any complaints with your experience in this course
please visit http://www.distance.ufl.edu/student-complaints to submit a
complaint.

Most importantly, if you are struggling for any reason please come talk
to me and I will do my best to help.

#### **Grading scale**

-   **A 93-100**

-   **A- 90-92**

-   **B+ 87-89**

-   **B 83-86**

-   **B- 80-82**

-   **C+ 77-79**

-   **C 73-76**

-   **C- 70-72**

-   **D+ 67-69**

-   **D 60-66**

-   **E <60**


#### **Course Schedule**

The details course schedule is available on the course site on Canvas.

**Disclaimer:** This syllabus represents our current plans and
objectives. As we go through the semester, those plans may need to
change to enhance the class learning opportunity. Such changes,
communicated clearly, are not unusual and should be expected.
